README.md, before:

# Runs the Smooth Particle Ewald Mesh (SPME) algorithm for n-body simulations with periodic boundary conditions

[![Crate](https://img.shields.io/crates/v/ewald.svg)](https://crates.io/crates/ewald)
[![Docs](https://docs.rs/ewald/badge.svg)](https://docs.rs/ewald)
[![PyPI](https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/ewald.svg)](https://pypi.org/project/ewald)

[//]: # ([![DOI]&#40;https://zenodo.org/badge/DOI/10.5281/zenodo.15616833.svg&#41;]&#40;https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.15616833&#41;)

[Original paper describing the SPME method](https://biomolmd.org/mw/images/e/e0/Spme.pdf)

This library is for Python and Rust. Supports GPU, or thread-pooled CPU.

This has applications primarily in structural biology. For example, molecular dynamics. Compared to other
n-body approximations for long-range forces, this has utility when periodic bounday conditions are used.
If not using these, for example in cosmology simulations, consider Barnes Hut, or Fast Multipole Methods (FMM)
instead.

Uses Rayon to parallelize as thread pools. Support for SIMD (256-bit and 512-bit), is planned. To use on an nVidia GPU, enable 
the `cuda` feature in `Cargo.toml`.

Used by the [Daedalus protein viewer and molecular dynamics program](https://github.com/david-oconnor/daedalus), and
the [Dynamics library](https://github.com/david-oconnor/dynamics).

Uses f32 for Lennard Jones and Coulomb interactions. Energy sums are computed as f64.

Here's an example of use. The Python API is equivalent.

```rust
use rayon::prelude::*;
use ewald::{force_coulomb_ewald_real, force_coulomb_ewald_real};

const LONG_RANGE_CUTOFF: f32 = 10.0;

// A bigger α means more damping, and a smaller real-space contribution. (Cheaper real), but larger
// reciprocal load.
const EWALD_ALPHA: f32 = 0.35; // Å^-1. 0.35 is good for cutoff = 10.

impl System {
    // Primary application:
    fn apply_forces(&self) {
        pairs
            .par_iter()
            .map(|(i_0, i_1)| {
                let atom_0 = &self.atoms[i_0];
                let atom_1 = &self.atoms[i_1];
                let diff = atom_1.pos - atom_0.pos;
                let r = diff.magnitude();
                let dir = diff / r;
    
                let mut f = Vec3::zero();
    
                let (f, energy) = force_coulomb_short_range(
                    dir,
                    r,
                    // We include 1/r as it's likely shared between this and Lennard Jones;
                    // improves efficiency.
                    1./r,
                    atom_0.charge,
                    atom_1.charge,
                    // e.g. (8Å, 10Å)
                    LONG_RANGE_CUTOFF,
                    ALPHA,
                );
    
                atom_0.force += f;
                atom_1.force -= f;
            });

        let (recip_forces_per_atom, energy_recip) = self.pme_recip.forces(&atom_posits, &[atom_charges]);
    }

    /// Run this at init, and whenever you update the sim box.
    pub fn regen_pme(&mut self) {
        self.pme_recip = PmeRecip::new((SPME_N, SPME_N, SPME_N), self.cell.extent, EWALD_ALPHA);
    }
}
```

Commit message:

update re python CPU only

README.md, after:

# Runs the Smooth Particle Ewald Mesh (SPME) algorithm for n-body simulations with periodic boundary conditions

[![Crate](https://img.shields.io/crates/v/ewald.svg)](https://crates.io/crates/ewald)
[![Docs](https://docs.rs/ewald/badge.svg)](https://docs.rs/ewald)
[![PyPI](https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/ewald.svg)](https://pypi.org/project/ewald)

[//]: # ([![DOI]&#40;https://zenodo.org/badge/DOI/10.5281/zenodo.15616833.svg&#41;]&#40;https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.15616833&#41;)

[Original paper describing the SPME method](https://biomolmd.org/mw/images/e/e0/Spme.pdf)

This library is for Python and Rust. Supports GPU, and thread-pooled CPU.

**Note: The Python version is currently CPU only**. We would like to fix this, but are having trouble
linking Cuda.

This has applications primarily in structural biology. For example, molecular dynamics. Compared to other
n-body approximations for long-range forces, this has utility when periodic bounday conditions are used.
If not using these, for example in cosmology simulations, consider Barnes Hut, or Fast Multipole Methods (FMM)
instead.

Uses Rayon to parallelize as thread pools. Support for SIMD (256-bit and 512-bit), is planned. To use on an nVidia GPU, enable 
the `cuda` feature in `Cargo.toml`.

Used by the [Daedalus protein viewer and molecular dynamics program](https://github.com/david-oconnor/daedalus), and
the [Dynamics library](https://github.com/david-oconnor/dynamics).

Uses `f32` for Lennard Jones and Coulomb interactions. Energy sums are computed as `f64`.

Here's an example of use. The Python API is equivalent.

Note: For optimal performance, you may wish to implement short-range SPME integrated with Lennard Jones interactions
in your application as an integrated GPU kernel, instead of using the short-range function here directly. This
library shines when using its long-range reciprical implemention on GPU.

```rust
use rayon::prelude::*;
use ewald::{force_coulomb_ewald_real, force_coulomb_ewald_real};

const LONG_RANGE_CUTOFF: f32 = 10.0;

// A bigger α means more damping, and a smaller real-space contribution. (Cheaper real), but larger
// reciprocal load.
const EWALD_ALPHA: f32 = 0.35; // Å^-1. 0.35 is good for cutoff = 10.

impl System {
    // Primary application:
    fn apply_forces(&self) {
        pairs
            .par_iter()
            .map(|(i_0, i_1)| {
                let atom_0 = &self.atoms[i_0];
                let atom_1 = &self.atoms[i_1];
                let diff = atom_1.pos - atom_0.pos;
                let r = diff.magnitude();
                let dir = diff / r;
    
                let mut f = Vec3::zero();
    
                let (f, energy) = force_coulomb_short_range(
                    dir,
                    r,
                    // We include 1/r as it's likely shared between this and Lennard Jones;
                    // improves efficiency.
                    1./r,
                    atom_0.charge,
                    atom_1.charge,
                    // e.g. (8Å, 10Å)
                    LONG_RANGE_CUTOFF,
                    ALPHA,
                );
    
                atom_0.force += f;
                atom_1.force -= f;
            });

        let (recip_forces_per_atom, energy_recip) = self.pme_recip.forces(&atom_posits, &[atom_charges]);
    }

    /// Run this at init, and whenever you update the sim box.
    pub fn regen_pme(&mut self) {
        self.pme_recip = PmeRecip::new((SPME_N, SPME_N, SPME_N), self.cell.extent, EWALD_ALPHA);
    }
}
```


### Note: Try this to reduce linux wheel size with cuda:
maturin build --release --strip

auditwheel repair \
--exclude libcufft.so.12 \
--exclude libnvrtc.so.12 \
--exclude libcublas.so.12 \
target/ (etc)
